# ICBnetIS
A predictive network-based immune checkpoint blockade immunotherapeutic signature optimizing patient selection and treatment strategies

## Development of network-based immune checkpoint blockade immunotherapeutic signature (ICBnetIS)

The curated gene sets of three core immune-driven anti-tumor pathways (APP, BCR, and TCR) were provided by the esteemed ImmPort (Immunology Database and Analysis Portal). For co-expression network analysis, we opted for WGCNA for the screening of the anti-tumor immune-related gene module. Module membership in WGCNA was quantified using correlation measures between the gene's expression and the module's overall expression pattern (eigengene). Gene significance in WGCNA was assessed by calculating the correlation between the gene's expression and the values of the clinical trait (activity levels of the three core pathways). For molecular interactions network analysis, we assessed the proximity of each gene within the PPI network to anti-tumor immunity by employing the guilt-by-association algorithm known as random walk with restart. This process is referred to as random walk with restart on PPI network (PPI-RWR). The PPI-RWR algorithm starts from a predetermined set of seed proteins and applies a random walk strategy to the whole PPI network. At the end, probability scores for each protein in the network will be obtained. These scores measure the importance of proteins in the PPI network, and higher values indicate a greater likelihood of functional association with the seed proteins. We chose the genes present in the APP, BCR, and TCR pathways as the initial seed nodes to start three rounds of PPI-RWR analyses. The genes with the strongest connectivity to the three pathways can be highlighted by ranking the genes based on their probabilities in descending order. The top 10% of the genes in the APP-associated PPI-RWR-based gene ranking contained the genes that were significantly positively associated with each of the nine published ISs (correlation index > 0.6) with the aid of TCGA-SKCM, and these genes were regarded as the final PPI-RWR APP-associated genes. The same process was applied to the BCR and TCR pathways, resulting in three PPI-RWR-based gene lists related to anti-tumor immunity. After intersecting gene lists identified by WGCNA and PPI-RWR analysis based on APP, BCR, and TCR pathways, we performed univariate Cox proportional hazards regression analysis and RSF machine learning algorithm for prognosis downscaling in the TCGA SKCM dataset. Using the ssGSEA methodology and the final conclusive gene list, we computed the IS we created titled ICBnetIS for each patient.
